# College Process and Final Year of High School

## What is the college process? How has the College Process Impact oneself? How does college/university benefit or help people? 


       The College Process can be a difficult series of months juggling choosing the right college for you based on tuition, environment, location, travel time from home to university, dorms, food, major and classes, sports, parties, and just the overall lifestyle of the university. College is seen as a different environment and lifestyle from going to high school and living with your parents and growing that independence that you will need for college and you may be living in a dorm with a roommate(s) and will need to provide for yourself. In my senior year of high school, I have learned that you will need to accomplish certain tasks such as washing your own clothes, providing food for yourself, shopping for your own products and clothes, and learning how to become an independent adult. For some people, it could be hard learning how to become independent and living away from your parents, but for some it could be a joy to leave home not just for the environment but sometimes for the fun of college and the fact that they don't have someone or people constantly watching over them.


      But sidetracking from college a bit, the final year of high school, the juggling of academics and final classes, trying to keep your GPA up and just trying to graduate, enjoying everyday with your friends, spending your final months of being in high school, making memories, reflecting on how much you have grown since you first came into high school, going through thoughts about leaving and graduating, the feelings of knowing that you are moving on to a new stage of your life and how it could impact you and benefit you or it may not, but that's for oneself's to decide. These are thoughts and things that I have thought about since the beginning of September of my Senior Year, and these have helped me grow as a person as to what I have to enjoy the time that I have left in being in High School. For some people, the final year of high school has been difficult for these same thoughts and reasons but for some people it would be a dream to finally graduate and leave.

        Now connecting both the college process that seniors go through and what the final year of high school is like we can now talk about how these two can impact and how it could improve somebody's self-esteem and it could potentially lower it. The College Process is known as one of the most life changing and stressful changes that somebody could go through especially a teenager becoming a young adult. Becoming a college student means taking the skills and what you’ve learned from high school and applying it into college courses and maybe even internships, jobs and college "work" courses that prepare you for the real world jobs. Sometimes college may not always be about advancing your knowledge on a subject and it could also be whatever major that you choose, it could prepare you for an actual job based on your major and not just taking classes for a degree. Some of these real world aspects that could benefit you in college could even be interviews, actually working in a job and even experiencing what it's like to get a job. These things can all help people be motivated enough to go into college to know that they won't just earn a degree and no work experience which alot of colleges tend to do, but getting job experience, personal connections, and even a degree can take you far after you graduate college. 

	    College can help you with personal growth and like said before, boosting your self esteem, and being able to gain skills like communication between your teachers, coaches, professors, advisors, guidance counselors and staff, time management for academics, sports, and etc. And, being able to collaborate with other people, likewise in high school some classes may tell you that you could either work in a group project, or a solo project but most likely in college you won’t have that option as working in a group project as it may be a final semester grade or as a huge project grade. There will also be opportunities to enhance one’s presentation skills, a lot of high school students go into college lacking being able to speak in front of a class of alot of students. Growing past that mental block of presenting in front of a whole class of maybe 50-75 students can help boost your presentation skills tremendously. As said previously, you can also become great career networks with your classmates and even your professors. One of the other things that college can help you with is budgeting your money. In most every college student’s situation their parents are paying for their tuition and dorm even if they are on a full or part scholarship that is provided by the college, the student will most likely have to pay for the essential needs that they would need and most students will work a job if they have free time. Budgeting is one of the most important phases and skills that college students will look to enhance as they become an independent adult. Some of the final things that college can help you benefit from is being able to experience new interests and can bring your perspective to an all new height. College can help you bring in your new mindset not only enhances your personal growth but also positively impacts your professional development. It will help you stay curious, adaptable, and open to new experiences.

        To wrap things up, the college process is known as one of the most life changing moments for teenagers that move on from high school to college, to move onto new experiences, make new friends, learn new stuff about your major and about other people and devleop new hobbies and much more!